# Increasing RedBus's App Engagement

Here's some great retention & engagement strategies for RedBus and how they could use to retain their customers and increase engagement on their mobile app.

This is what the flow of booking on the redbus website / app looks like

1. Enter destination
2. Select date of travel / return journey date
3. Search and filter for convenient bus by
  - Pickup location (stop name)
  - Drop-off location (stop name)
  - and other amenities etc.
4. Enter passenger details
5. Make payment
6. Receive notification / email

Now, after this point, I really don't use the RedBus app - everything I do is off the app from here like

1. Viewing the ticket
2. Setting myself a reminder for leaving to the bus stop
3. Call the bus driver to know where they are & whether it's the bus or a pick-up van
4. Show printed ticket / email / sms to the conductor before boarding the bus

## Target Segment of Customers

So, broadly if one were to segment the users based on their behaviour, I would particularly focus on people travelling on longer distance journeys (6 - 7 hours or more, mostly over night journeys) and target them to increase their engagement on the RedBus app **during the commute** time. These are people who already have their journey booked and are now starting their journey on the bus.

Let's first look at the pain points for these set of customers

## Commute Experience Pain Points

There are several things that happen once you are travelling on the bus

1. "Are we stopping for dinner somewhere?"
2. Language issues with the conductor / driver - hesitant to ask to stop to pee
3. Where exactly do I need to get off once we reach the destination city? (_someone who is new to the city_)
4. How will I go after being dropped off?
5. Is my luggage going to be safe in the trunk?
6. Can you please lower the TV volume? - plus I don't want to watch that movie

These are some of the pain points I have personally come across or observed other passengers face.

Here are some basic ideas that help address these pain points


### Idea 1 - Pre-order food

Allow me to see the bus's route so that I know where and when the bus would be stopping - and see what's available there. It could be toilet facility, cigarettes, chai or the food menu. If it's stopping at a restaurant - allow me to pre-order before the bus reaches there to decrease halt time. 

_BTW, even IRCTC allows me to book meals from the train, a delightful experience._


### Idea 2 - Streaming services

There's always that movie no one wants to watch but it's still playing in that huge tv with loud speakers - damn irritating. Here's what RedBus should do - provide me some streaming options for movies, music or games, even if it's for a small price.

Yes, many people pre-download a movie on their phone or buy spotify premium sometimes, but why not show me a Tamil movie when I am travelling to Chennai or better even, show me things to do in Chennai, or events happening next day etc.

It's a great way of comforting and easing the commuter's flow in to the destination city. The point is to not have me google and search, instead providing it right there in the app.


### Idea 3 - Notify closest drop-off point

No one likes asking the conductor again and again where we are and how long will it take to reach the destination. A great hack to it is, using google maps live location, which I do to see how far I am from the destination. Many passengers are new to the city and don't know where to get off, based on the hotel I need to go to.

So why not integrate that with RedBus's app to notify 10 mins before reaching the destination drop off location which is closest to my hotel?

